# SQL-STATEMENTS-FUNDAMENTALS-
PostgreSQL (SQL STATEMENTS)   DOWNLOAD THE ZIP FILE TO GET ASSCESS TO CODE AND ITS EXPLAINATION 1.SELECT statements:  The SELECT Statement in SQL is used to retrieve or fetch data from a database. We can fetch either the entire table or according to some specified rules. The data returned is stored in a result table. ... This query will return all the rows in the table with fields column1 , column2.  2.SELECT DISTINCT   The SELECT DISTINCT statement is used to return only distinct (different) values. Inside a table, a column often contains many duplicate values; and sometimes you only want to list the different (distinct) values.  3.COUNT  COUNT(*) returns the number of rows in a specified table, and it preserves duplicate rows. It counts each row separately. This includes rows that contain null values.  4.SELECT WHERE   The SQL SELECT statement returns a result set of records, from one or more tables. A SELECT statement retrieves zero or more rows from one or more database tables or database views. In most applications, SELECT is the most commonly used data manipulation language (DML) command.  5.ORDER BY   The ORDER BY keyword is used to sort the result-set in ascending or descending order. The ORDER BY keyword sorts the records in ascending order by default. To sort the records in descending order, use the DESC keyword.  6.LIMIT  The SQL LIMIT clause restricts how many rows are returned from a query. The syntax for the LIMIT clause is: SELECT * FROM table LIMIT X;. X represents how many records you want to retrieve. For example, you can use the LIMIT clause to retrieve the top five players on a leader-board.   7.BETWEEN  The BETWEEN command is used to select values within a given range. The values can be numbers, text, or dates. The BETWEEN command is inclusive: begin and end values are included.  8.IN   The SQL IN condition (sometimes called the IN operator) allows you to easily test if an expression matches any value in a list of values.  9.LIKE and ILIKE   The keyword ILIKE can be used instead of LIKE to make the match case insensitive according to the active locale. This is not in the SQL standard but is a PostgreSQL extension. The operator ~~ is equivalent to LIKE , and ~~* corresponds to ILIKE .
